README.md, before:

### CoordinateInfoAPI

Scope:

	-	Rails 5 API
	-	Given an x, y coordinate, return country and municipality information that intersects the coordinates.


Data Source:

	-	Global Administrative Areas - www.gadm.org
	-	GADM datasetof Global Administrative Area
	-	Downloaded “gadm28.zip” which contains an ESRI format shape (.shp) file.
	-	File version 2.8 (November 2015)
	-	shp2pgsql to convert the .shp file into insert statements for a PostgreSQL/PostGIS DB.


Tech Stack:

	-	Ruby 2.5.1p57 (2018-03-09 revision 63029) [i686-linux]
	-	Rails 5.2.0
	-	Development Machine - Vagrant init ubuntu/trusty32 - (3.13.0-110-generic)
	-	Vagrant Box setup script: https://github.com/greghorne/VagrantRailsBox/blob/master/setup.sh
	-	PostgreSQL 9.4 with PostGIS 2.1.4 - Database server resides on a Raspberry Pi 2 Model B
    -   API tested with Postman (see test folder for JSON test file)
 

API Usage:

    - http://api.website.com/api/v1?longitude_x=float&latitude_y=float&db=db_type&key=optional

        longitude_x = type: float 
        latitude_y  = type: float 
        db     = type: string ==> pg (default) or mongo (pending implementation)
        key    = type: string ==> authorization key     (pending implementation)

    - Return value is JSON
        {
            "success": integer         1 = success, 0 = error (check this value first)
            "response": {
                country:               country name in English
                municipality1:         municipality name in English
                municipality_nl1:      municipality name in native language
                municipality_nl_type1: municipality type in native language spelled in English
                municipality2:         municipality name in English
                municipality_nl2:      municipality name in native language
                municipality_nl_type2: municipality type in native language spelled in English
            }
        }

        if success = 0 then "response" will contain a "msg" (see below for example)

Example API Calls:

    - example http://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=88.445670&latitude_y=23.243660

        returns JSON (intersects location in India)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "India",
                "municipality1": "West Bengal",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "State",
                "municipality2": "Nadia",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "District"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (India, West Bengal State, Nadia District)


    - example https://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=-95.992775&latitude_y=36.153980

        returns JSON (intersects location in Tulsa, OK)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "United States",
                "municipality1": "Oklahoma",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "State",
                "municipality2": "Tulsa",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "County"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (United States, Oklahoma State, Tulsa County)


    - example http://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=116.407396&latitude_y=39.904200

        returns JSON (intersects location in China)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "China",
                "municipality1": "Beijing",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "北京|北京",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "Zhíxiáshì",
                "municipality2": "Beijing",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "北京|北京",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "Zhíxiáshì"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (China, Beijing Zhíxiáshì)
                        or
            (China, 北京|北京 Zhíxiáshì)

            In that the data repeats itself only the first set of data is relavent.
            Also note dataset error of repeat of 北京 as 北京|北京.  北京 = Beijing


    - example http://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=34.299316&latitude_y=43.413029

        returns JSON (intersects location in The Black Sea):
        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": { }
        }


    - example http://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=-200&latitude_y=15.552727

        returns JSON (invalid longitude_x):
        {
            "success": 0,
            "response": {
                "msg": "invalid longitude_x and/or latitude_y"
            }
        }

    - example http://api.website.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=48.516388&latitude_y=15.552727

        returns JSON (intersects location in Yemen): 
        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "Yemen",
                "municipality1": "Hadramawt",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "حضرموت",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "Muhafazah",
                "municipality2": "Wadi Al Ayn",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "وادي العين وحوره",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "Muderiah"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (Yemen, Hadramawt Muhafazah, Wadi Al Ayn Muderiah) 
                                   or
            (Yemen, حضرموت Muhafazah, وادي العين وحوره Muderiah)


Notes:

    - There are additonal columns in the dataset but I have cut them off after the first two interations of a location.

    - Creating this app has been a weird trip
      
      rails new . --api --skip-turbolinks --skip-puma --database=postgresql (which is what finally worked)

      --skip-active-records ==> if used as an option I never could create a controller 
      Instead of a controller, I tried putting code into an .rb file in /lib.  This would work in
      'development' but once I switched to 'production' then rails couldn't find the /lib/file.rb.
      Googled the issue and tried a number of 'solutions'.  I never could resolve this issue.

Commit message:

updated README and deployed to Heroku

README.md, after:

### CoordinateInfoAPI

Scope:

	-	Rails 5 API
	-	Given an x, y coordinate, return country and municipality information that intersects the coordinates.


Data Source:

	-	Global Administrative Areas - www.gadm.org
	-	GADM datasetof Global Administrative Area
	-	Downloaded “gadm28.zip” which contains an ESRI format shape (.shp) file.
	-	File version 2.8 (November 2015)
	-	shp2pgsql to convert the .shp file into insert statements for a PostgreSQL/PostGIS DB.


Tech Stack:

	-	Ruby 2.5.1p57 (2018-03-09 revision 63029) [i686-linux]
	-	Rails 5.2.0
	-	Development Machine - Vagrant init ubuntu/trusty32 - (3.13.0-110-generic)
	-	Vagrant Box setup script: https://github.com/greghorne/VagrantRailsBox/blob/master/setup.sh
	-	PostgreSQL 9.4 with PostGIS 2.1.4 - Database server resides on a Raspberry Pi 2 Model B
    -   API test with Postman (see test folder for JSON test file)
    -   Deployed to Heroku:  https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com
 

API Usage:

    - https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1?longitude_x=float&latitude_y=float&db=db_type&key=optional

        longitude_x = type: float 
        latitude_y  = type: float 
        db     = type: string ==> pg (default) or mongo (pending implementation)
        key    = type: string ==> authorization key     (pending implementation)

    - Return value is JSON
        {
            "success": integer         1 = success, 0 = error (check this value first)
            "response": {
                country:               country name in English
                municipality1:         municipality name in English
                municipality_nl1:      municipality name in native language
                municipality_nl_type1: municipality type in native language spelled in English
                municipality2:         municipality name in English
                municipality_nl2:      municipality name in native language
                municipality_nl_type2: municipality type in native language spelled in English
            }
        }

        if success = 0 then "response" will contain a "msg" (see below for example)

Example API Calls:

    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=88.445670&latitude_y=23.243660

        returns JSON (intersects location in India)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "India",
                "municipality1": "West Bengal",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "State",
                "municipality2": "Nadia",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "District"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (India, West Bengal State, Nadia District)


    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=-95.992775&latitude_y=36.153980

        returns JSON (intersects location in Tulsa, OK)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "United States",
                "municipality1": "Oklahoma",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "State",
                "municipality2": "Tulsa",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "County"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (United States, Oklahoma State, Tulsa County)


    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=116.407396&latitude_y=39.904200

        returns JSON (intersects location in China)

        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "China",
                "municipality1": "Beijing",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "北京|北京",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "Zhíxiáshì",
                "municipality2": "Beijing",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "北京|北京",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "Zhíxiáshì"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (China, Beijing Zhíxiáshì)
                        or
            (China, 北京|北京 Zhíxiáshì)

            In that the data repeats itself only the first set of data is relavent.
            Also note dataset error of repeat of 北京 as 北京|北京.  北京 = Beijing


    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=34.299316&latitude_y=43.413029

        returns JSON (intersects location in The Black Sea):
        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": { }
        }


    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=-200&latitude_y=15.552727

        returns JSON (invalid longitude_x):
        {
            "success": 0,
            "response": {
                "msg": "invalid longitude_x and/or latitude_y"
            }
        }

    - example https://coordinate-info.herokuapp.com/api/v1/coord_info?longitude_x=48.516388&latitude_y=15.552727

        returns JSON (intersects location in Yemen): 
        {
            "success": 1,
            "response": {
                "country": "Yemen",
                "municipality1": "Hadramawt",
                "municipaltiy_nl1": "حضرموت",
                "municipality_nl_type1": "Muhafazah",
                "municipality2": "Wadi Al Ayn",
                "municipaltiy_nl2": "وادي العين وحوره",
                "municipality_nl_type2": "Muderiah"
            }
        }

        read as:
            (Yemen, Hadramawt Muhafazah, Wadi Al Ayn Muderiah) 
                                   or
            (Yemen, حضرموت Muhafazah, وادي العين وحوره Muderiah)


Notes:

    - There are additonal columns in the dataset but I have cut them off after the first two interations of a location.

    - Creating this app has been a weird trip
      
      rails new . --api --skip-turbolinks --skip-puma --database=postgresql (which is what finally worked)

      --skip-active-records ==> if used as an option I never could create a controller 
      Instead of a controller, I tried putting code into an .rb file in /lib.  This would work in
      'development' but once I switched to 'production' then rails couldn't find the /lib/file.rb.
      Googled the issue and tried a number of 'solutions'.  I never could resolve this issue.

      repo CoordinateInfoAPI was the previous version I worked on that in the end I just had to dump.
